# Class-Attendance-Monitoring-System-Using-Fingerprint
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In any academic institution it is very important to keep the record of student attended the class for evaluation purposes. Currently, in DIT the process of attendance is done manually where every student who attend the class must write his or her name on the paper. Next time when he/she comes to class he has to sign in on the corresponding name of the sheet/paper. The weakness of this way is that a student can sign for others even if they don’t attend the class. Based on the said problem above, in this project class attendance monitoring system that based on fingerprint recognition of student in order to verify their attendance is proposed. In the proposed system, before the session starts the instructor of the session will activate the session by sign in the fingerprint device, after the instructor sign in, the session and venue of the module will be activated and the students can be sign in. In addition, thirty (30) minutes after the session commenced the students who comes after that time cannot be accepted by the system. Also, the system will be able to generate the weekly, monthly and semester report which will be useful in evaluation of the student. The proposed system will eliminate the problems of buddy signing, loss of attendance sheet, and the issue of sessions punctuality. 
